README.md, before:

# OpenShift-PSAP CI Artifacs

This repository contains [Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/) roles and
playbooks for [OpenShift](https://www.openshift.com/) PSAP CI.

> Performance & Latency Sensitive Application Platform

---

# Quickstart

Requirements: (localhost)

- Ansible >= 2.9.5
- OpenShift Client (`oc`)
- A kubeconfig config file defined at `KUBECONFIG`

# CI testing of the GPU Operator

The main goal of this repository is to perform nightly testing of the
GPU Operator. This consists in multiple pieces:

1. a container image [definition](build/Dockerfile);
2. an [entrypoint script](for the container image) that will run in
the container image;
3. a set of
[config files](https://github.com/openshift/release/tree/master/ci-operator/config/openshift-psap/ci-artifacts)
and associated
[jobs](https://github.com/openshift/release/tree/master/ci-operator/jobs/openshift-psap/ci-artifacts)
for PROW CI engine.

See
[there](https://prow.ci.openshift.org/?type=periodic&job=periodic-ci-openshift-psap-ci-artifacts-*)
for the nightly CI results.

As an example, the nightly tests currently run commands such as:

```
run gpu-operator_test-operatorhub    # test the GPU Operator from OperatorHub installation
run gpu-operator_test-master-branch  # test the GPU Operator from its `master` branch
run gpu-operator_test-helm 1.4.0     # test the GPU Operator from Helm installation
```

These commands will in-turn trigger `toolbox` commands, in order to
prepare the cluster, install the relevant operators and validate the
successful usage of the GPUs.

The `toolbox` commands are described in the section below.

## GPU Operator toolbox

See the progress and discussions about the toolbox development in
[this issue](https://github.com/openshift-psap/ci-artifacts/issues/34).

GPU Operator
------------

- [x] Deploy from OperatorHub
    - [x] allow deploying an older version https://github.com/openshift-psap/ci-artifacts/issues/76
```
toolbox/gpu-operator/deploy_from_operatorhub.sh [<version>]
toolbox/gpu-operator/undeploy_from_operatorhub.sh
```

    - [x] List the versions available from OperatorHub (not 100%
      reliable, the connection may timeout)

```
toolbox/gpu-operator/list_version_from_operator_hub.sh

Usage:
  toolbox/gpu-operator/list_version_from_operator_hub.sh [<package-name> [<catalog-name>]]
  toolbox/gpu-operator/list_version_from_operator_hub.sh --help

Defaults:
  package-name: gpu-operator-certified
  catalog-name: certified-operators
  namespace: openshift-marketplace (controlled with NAMESPACE environment variable)
```


- [x] Deploy from helm
```
toolbox/gpu-operator/list_version_from_helm.sh
toolbox/gpu-operator/deploy_from_helm.sh <helm-version>
toolbox/gpu-operator/undeploy_from_helm.sh
```

- [x]  Deploy from a custom commit.
```
toolbox/gpu-operator/deploy_from_commit.sh <git repository> <git reference> [gpu_operator_image_tag_uid]
Example:
toolbox/gpu-operator/deploy_from_commit.sh https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator.git master
```

- [x] Wait for the GPU Operator deployment and validate it
```
toolbox/gpu-operator/wait_deployment.sh
```

- [x] Run [GPU-burn](https://github.com/openshift-psap/gpu-burn) to validate that all the GPUs of all the nodes can run workloads
```
toolbox/gpu-operator/run_gpu_burn.sh [gpu-burn runtime, in seconds]
```

- [x] Capture GPU operator possible issues (entitlement, NFD labelling, operator deployment, state of resources in gpu-operator-resources, ...)
```
toolbox/entitlement/test.sh
toolbox/nfd/has_nfd_labels.sh
toolbox/nfd/has_gpu_nodes.sh
toolbox/gpu-operator/wait_deployment.sh
toolbox/gpu-operator/run_gpu_burn.sh 30
toolbox/gpu-operator/capture_deployment_state.sh
```

or all in one step:
```
toolbox/gpu-operator/diagnose.sh
```

- [x] Uninstall and cleanup stalled resources
  - `helm` (in particular) fails to deploy when any resource is left
    from a previously failed deployment, eg:

```
Error: rendered manifests contain a resource that already exists. Unable to continue with install: existing resource conflict: namespace: , name: gpu-operator, existing_kind: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1, Kind=ClusterRole, new_kind: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1, Kind=ClusterRole
```

 - This command ensures that the GPU Operator is fully undeployed from
    the cluster:

```
toolbox/gpu-operator/cleanup_resources.sh
```

NFD
---

- [x]  Deploy the NFD operator from OperatorHub:
```
toolbox/nfd/deploy_from_operatorhub.sh
toolbox/nfd/undeploy_from_operatorhub.sh
```
  - [ ]  Control the channel to use from the command-line

- [x] Test the NFD deployment
  - [x] test with the NFD if GPU nodes are available
  - [x] wait with the NFD for GPU nodes to become available

```
toolbox/nfd/has_nfd_labels.sh
toolbox/nfd/has_gpu_nodes.sh
toolbox/nfd/wait_gpu_nodes.sh
```

Cluster
-------

- [x] Add a GPU node on AWS
```
./toolbox/cluster/scaleup.sh
```
   - [x] Specify a machine type in the command-line, and skip scale-up if a node with the given machine-type is already present
```
./toolbox/cluster/scaleup.sh <machine-type>
```

- [x] Entitle the cluster, by passing a PEM file, checking if they should be concatenated or not, etc. And do nothing is the cluster is already entitled
```
toolbox/entitlement/deploy.sh --pem /path/to/key.pem
toolbox/entitlement/deploy.sh --machine-configs /path/to/machineconfigs
toolbox/entitlement/undeploy.sh
toolbox/entitlement/test.sh [--no-inspect]
toolbox/entitlement/wait.sh

toolbox/entitlement/test_in_podman.sh /path/to/key.pem
```
  - [x] Capture all the clues required to understand entitlement issues

```
toolbox/entitlement/inspect.sh
```

- [ ] Deployment of an entitled cluster
  - already coded, but we need to integrate [this repo](https://gitlab.com/kpouget_psap/deploy-cluster) within the toolbox
  - deploy a cluster with 1 master node

CI
---

- [x] Build the image used for the Prow CI testing, and run a given command in the Pod
```
Usage:   toolbox/local-ci/deploy.sh <ci command> <git repository> <git reference> [gpu_operator_image_tag_uid]
Example: toolbox/local-ci/deploy.sh 'run gpu-ci' https://github.com/openshift-psap/ci-artifacts.git master

toolbox/local-ci/cleanup.sh
```

Commit message:

entitlement_test_in_cluster: new role

README.md, after:

# OpenShift-PSAP CI Artifacs

This repository contains [Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/) roles and
playbooks for [OpenShift](https://www.openshift.com/) PSAP CI.

> Performance & Latency Sensitive Application Platform

---

# Quickstart

Requirements: (localhost)

- Ansible >= 2.9.5
- OpenShift Client (`oc`)
- A kubeconfig config file defined at `KUBECONFIG`

# CI testing of the GPU Operator

The main goal of this repository is to perform nightly testing of the
GPU Operator. This consists in multiple pieces:

1. a container image [definition](build/Dockerfile);
2. an [entrypoint script](for the container image) that will run in
the container image;
3. a set of
[config files](https://github.com/openshift/release/tree/master/ci-operator/config/openshift-psap/ci-artifacts)
and associated
[jobs](https://github.com/openshift/release/tree/master/ci-operator/jobs/openshift-psap/ci-artifacts)
for PROW CI engine.

See
[there](https://prow.ci.openshift.org/?type=periodic&job=periodic-ci-openshift-psap-ci-artifacts-*)
for the nightly CI results.

As an example, the nightly tests currently run commands such as:

```
run gpu-operator_test-operatorhub    # test the GPU Operator from OperatorHub installation
run gpu-operator_test-master-branch  # test the GPU Operator from its `master` branch
run gpu-operator_test-helm 1.4.0     # test the GPU Operator from Helm installation
```

These commands will in-turn trigger `toolbox` commands, in order to
prepare the cluster, install the relevant operators and validate the
successful usage of the GPUs.

The `toolbox` commands are described in the section below.

## GPU Operator toolbox

See the progress and discussions about the toolbox development in
[this issue](https://github.com/openshift-psap/ci-artifacts/issues/34).

GPU Operator
------------

- [x] Deploy from OperatorHub
    - [x] allow deploying an older version https://github.com/openshift-psap/ci-artifacts/issues/76
```
toolbox/gpu-operator/deploy_from_operatorhub.sh [<version>]
toolbox/gpu-operator/undeploy_from_operatorhub.sh
```

    - [x] List the versions available from OperatorHub (not 100%
      reliable, the connection may timeout)

```
toolbox/gpu-operator/list_version_from_operator_hub.sh

Usage:
  toolbox/gpu-operator/list_version_from_operator_hub.sh [<package-name> [<catalog-name>]]
  toolbox/gpu-operator/list_version_from_operator_hub.sh --help

Defaults:
  package-name: gpu-operator-certified
  catalog-name: certified-operators
  namespace: openshift-marketplace (controlled with NAMESPACE environment variable)
```


- [x] Deploy from helm
```
toolbox/gpu-operator/list_version_from_helm.sh
toolbox/gpu-operator/deploy_from_helm.sh <helm-version>
toolbox/gpu-operator/undeploy_from_helm.sh
```

- [x]  Deploy from a custom commit.
```
toolbox/gpu-operator/deploy_from_commit.sh <git repository> <git reference> [gpu_operator_image_tag_uid]
Example:
toolbox/gpu-operator/deploy_from_commit.sh https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator.git master
```

- [x] Wait for the GPU Operator deployment and validate it
```
toolbox/gpu-operator/wait_deployment.sh
```

- [x] Run [GPU-burn](https://github.com/openshift-psap/gpu-burn) to validate that all the GPUs of all the nodes can run workloads
```
toolbox/gpu-operator/run_gpu_burn.sh [gpu-burn runtime, in seconds]
```

- [x] Capture GPU operator possible issues (entitlement, NFD labelling, operator deployment, state of resources in gpu-operator-resources, ...)
```
toolbox/entitlement/test.sh
toolbox/nfd/has_nfd_labels.sh
toolbox/nfd/has_gpu_nodes.sh
toolbox/gpu-operator/wait_deployment.sh
toolbox/gpu-operator/run_gpu_burn.sh 30
toolbox/gpu-operator/capture_deployment_state.sh
```

or all in one step:
```
toolbox/gpu-operator/diagnose.sh
```

- [x] Uninstall and cleanup stalled resources
  - `helm` (in particular) fails to deploy when any resource is left
    from a previously failed deployment, eg:

```
Error: rendered manifests contain a resource that already exists. Unable to continue with install: existing resource conflict: namespace: , name: gpu-operator, existing_kind: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1, Kind=ClusterRole, new_kind: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1, Kind=ClusterRole
```

 - This command ensures that the GPU Operator is fully undeployed from
    the cluster:

```
toolbox/gpu-operator/cleanup_resources.sh
```

NFD
---

- [x]  Deploy the NFD operator from OperatorHub:
```
toolbox/nfd/deploy_from_operatorhub.sh
toolbox/nfd/undeploy_from_operatorhub.sh
```
  - [ ]  Control the channel to use from the command-line

- [x] Test the NFD deployment
  - [x] test with the NFD if GPU nodes are available
  - [x] wait with the NFD for GPU nodes to become available

```
toolbox/nfd/has_nfd_labels.sh
toolbox/nfd/has_gpu_nodes.sh
toolbox/nfd/wait_gpu_nodes.sh
```

Cluster
-------

- [x] Add a GPU node on AWS
```
./toolbox/cluster/scaleup.sh
```
   - [x] Specify a machine type in the command-line, and skip scale-up if a node with the given machine-type is already present
```
./toolbox/cluster/scaleup.sh <machine-type>
```

- [x] Entitle the cluster, by passing a PEM file, checking if they should be concatenated or not, etc. And do nothing is the cluster is already entitled
```
toolbox/entitlement/deploy.sh --pem /path/to/key.pem
toolbox/entitlement/deploy.sh --machine-configs /path/to/machineconfigs
toolbox/entitlement/undeploy.sh
toolbox/entitlement/test.sh [--no-inspect]
toolbox/entitlement/wait.sh

toolbox/entitlement/test_in_podman.sh /path/to/key.pem
toolbox/entitlement/test_in_cluster.sh /path/to/key.pem
```
  - [x] Capture all the clues required to understand entitlement issues

```
toolbox/entitlement/inspect.sh
```

- [ ] Deployment of an entitled cluster
  - already coded, but we need to integrate [this repo](https://gitlab.com/kpouget_psap/deploy-cluster) within the toolbox
  - deploy a cluster with 1 master node

CI
---

- [x] Build the image used for the Prow CI testing, and run a given command in the Pod
```
Usage:   toolbox/local-ci/deploy.sh <ci command> <git repository> <git reference> [gpu_operator_image_tag_uid]
Example: toolbox/local-ci/deploy.sh 'run gpu-ci' https://github.com/openshift-psap/ci-artifacts.git master

toolbox/local-ci/cleanup.sh
```
